Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 10, "Commitments and Contingencies" under the heading "Contingencies," in the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss greater than a recorded accrual, concerning loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. The outcome of litigation or government investigations is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts above management's expectations, the Company's results of operations and financial condition for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome can result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against the Company, and can require the Company to change its business practices and limit the Company's ability to offer certain products and services, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. The Company is subject to complex and changing laws and regulations worldwide, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on the Company's business. The Company's global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations on subjects, including antitrust; privacy, data security and data localization; consumer protection; advertising, sales, billing and e-commerce; financial services and technology; product liability; intellectual property ownership and infringement; digital platforms; internet, telecommunications, and mobile communications; media, television, film and digital content; availability of third-party software applications and services; labor and employment; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; anti-money laundering; foreign ownership and investment; tax; and environmental, health and safety, including electronic waste, recycling, and climate change. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 13 Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive. New and changing laws and regulations can adversely affect the Company's business by increasing the Company's costs, limiting the Company's ability to offer a product, service or feature to customers, impacting customer demand for the Company's products and services, and requiring changes to the Company's supply chain and its business. New and changing laws and regulations can also create uncertainty about how such laws and regulations will be interpreted and applied. These risks and costs may increase as the Company's products and services are introduced into specialized applications, including health and financial services. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance the Company's employees, contractors or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company's policies and procedures. If the Company is found to have violated laws and regulations, it could materially adversely affect the Company's business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory changes and other actions that materially adversely affect the Company's business may be announced with little or no advance notice and the Company may not be able to effectively mitigate all adverse impacts from such measures. For example, the Company is subject to changing regulations relating to the export and import of its products. Although the Company has programs, policies and procedures in place that are designed to satisfy regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that such policies and procedures will be effective in preventing a violation or a claim of a violation. As a result, the Company's products could be delayed or prohibited from importation, either of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Expectations relating to environmental, social and governance considerations expose the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs, reputational harm, and other adverse effects on the Company's business. Many governments, regulators, investors, employees, customers and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social and governance considerations relating to businesses, including climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, human and civil rights, and diversity, equity and inclusion. In addition, the Company makes statements about its environmental, social and governance goals and initiatives through its environmental, social and governance report, its other non-financial reports, information provided on its website, press statements and other communications. Responding to these environmental, social and governance considerations and implementation of these goals and initiatives involves risks and uncertainties, requires investments, and depends in part on third-party performance or data that is outside the Company's control. The Company cannot guarantee that it will achieve its announced environmental, social and governance goals and initiatives. In addition, some stakeholders may disagree with the Company's goals and initiatives. Any failure, or perceived failure, by the Company to achieve its goals, further its initiatives, adhere to its public statements, comply with federal, state or international environmental, social and governance laws and regulations, or meet evolving and varied stakeholder expectations and standards could result in legal and regulatory proceedings against the Company and materially adversely affect the Company's business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The technology industry, including, in some instances, the Company, is subject to intense media, political and regulatory scrutiny, which exposes the Company to increasing regulation, government investigations, legal actions and penalties. From time to time, the Company has made changes to its App Store, including actions taken in response to competition, market and legal conditions. The Company may make further business changes in the future. New legislative initiatives, such as the EU Digital Markets Act, or similar laws in other jurisdictions, could require further changes. These changes could include how and to what extent the Company charges developers for access to its platforms and manages distribution of apps outside of the App Store. The Company is also currently subject to antitrust investigations in various jurisdictions around the world, which can result in legal proceedings and claims against the Company that could, individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Company is the subject of investigations in Europe and other jurisdictions relating to App Store terms and conditions. If such investigations result in adverse findings against the Company, the Company could be exposed to significant fines and may be required to make changes to its App Store business, all of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is also subject to litigation relating to the App Store, which has resulted in changes to the Company's business practices, and may in the future result in further changes. Further, the Company has commercial relationships with other companies in the technology industry that are or may become subject to investigations and litigation that, if resolved against those other companies, could materially adversely affect the Company's commercial relationships with those business partners and materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Company earns revenue from licensing arrangements with other companies to offer their search services on the Company's platforms and apps, and certain of these arrangements are currently subject to government investigations and legal proceedings. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 14 There can be no assurance the Company's business will not be materially adversely affected, individually or in the aggregate, by the outcomes of such investigations, litigation or changes to laws and regulations in the future. Changes to the Company's business practices to comply with new laws and regulations or in connection with other legal proceedings could negatively impact the reputation of the Company's products for privacy and security and otherwise adversely affect the experience for users of the Company's products and services, and result in harm to the Company's reputation, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and services, and lost sales. The Company's business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. The Company is subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of various types of personal information. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also restrict transfers of personal information among the Company and its international subsidiaries. Several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and additional jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions or have laws that are pending. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing requirements causes the Company to incur substantial costs and has required and may in the future require the Company to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties or legal liability. The Company makes statements about its use and disclosure of personal information through its privacy policy, information provided on its website, press statements and other privacy notices provided to customers. Any failure by the Company to comply with these public statements or with other federal, state or international privacy or data protection laws and regulations could result in inquiries or proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. In addition to reputational impacts, penalties could include ongoing audit requirements and significant legal liability. In addition to the risks generally relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personal information, the Company is also subject to specific obligations relating to information considered sensitive under applicable laws, such as health data, financial data and biometric data. Health data and financial data are subject to additional privacy, security and breach notification requirements, and the Company is subject to audit by governmental authorities regarding the Company's compliance with these obligations. If the Company fails to adequately comply with these rules and requirements, or if health data or financial data is handled in a manner not permitted by law or under the Company's agreements with healthcare or financial institutions, the Company can be subject to litigation or government investigations, and can be liable for associated investigatory expenses, and can also incur significant fees or fines. Payment card data is also subject to additional requirements. Under payment card rules and obligations, if cardholder information is potentially compromised, the Company can be liable for associated investigatory expenses and can also incur significant fees or fines if the Company fails to follow payment card industry data security standards. The Company could also experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs or lose the ability to process payment cards if it fails to follow payment card industry data security standards, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Financial Risks The Company expects its quarterly net sales and results of operations to fluctuate. The Company's profit margins vary across its products, services, geographic segments and distribution channels. For example, the gross margins on the Company's products and services vary significantly and can change over time. The Company's gross margins are subject to volatility and downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures and product pricing actions that the Company may take in response to such pressures; increased competition; the Company's ability to effectively stimulate demand for certain of its products and services; compressed product life cycles; supply shortages; potential increases in the cost of components, outside manufacturing services, and developing, acquiring and delivering content for the Company's services; the Company's ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; shifts in the mix of products and services, or in the geographic, currency or channel mix, including to the extent that regulatory changes require the Company to modify its product and service offerings; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; inflation and other macroeconomic pressures; and the introduction of new products or services, including new products or services with higher cost structures. These and other factors could have a materially adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company has historically experienced higher net sales in its first quarter compared to other quarters in its fiscal year due in part to seasonal holiday demand. Additionally, new product and service introductions can significantly impact net sales, cost of sales and operating expenses. Further, the Company generates a significant portion of its net sales from a single product and a decline in demand for that product could significantly impact quarterly net sales. The Company could also be subject to unexpected developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company's products or services, issues with new product or service introductions, information technology system failures or network disruptions, or failure of one of the Company's logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 15 The Company's financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to local currencies. The Company's primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar-denominated sales, cost of sales and operating expenses worldwide. Gross margins on the Company's products in foreign countries and on products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of the Company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company's products. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise international pricing to offset the U.S. dollar's strengthening, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the gross margins the Company earns on foreign currency-denominated sales. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to the Company's foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing and incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may increase the Company's cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. The Company uses derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not be effective to offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the values of its investment portfolio. The Company's investments can be negatively affected by changes in liquidity, credit deterioration, financial results, market and economic conditions, political risk, sovereign risk, interest rate fluctuations or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities may fluctuate substantially. Therefore, although the Company has not realized any significant losses on its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable and non-marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could result in significant losses and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company distributes its products and certain of its services through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers. The Company also sells its products and services directly to small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers. A substantial majority of the Company's outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral, third-party bank support or financing arrangements, or credit insurance, and a significant portion of the Company's trade receivables can be concentrated within cellular network carriers or other resellers. The Company's exposure to credit and collectibility risk on its trade receivables is higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by outsourcing partners and other vendors that manufacture subassemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of inventory components. As of September 24, 2022, the Company's vendor non-trade receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements were concentrated among a few individual vendors located primarily in Asia. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade receivables, as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses. The Company is subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation and exposure to additional tax liabilities. The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where a number of the Company's subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax laws and tax rates for income taxes and other non-income taxes in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. The Company's effective tax rates are affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the introduction of new taxes, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including in the U.S. and Ireland. The application of tax laws may be uncertain, require significant judgment and be subject to differing interpretations. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 16 The Company is also subject to the examination of its tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the Company's effective tax rates were to increase, particularly in the U.S. or Ireland, or if the ultimate determination of the Company's taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. General Risks The price of the Company's stock is subject to volatility. The Company's stock has experienced substantial price volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Additionally, the Company, the technology industry and the stock market as a whole have, from time to time, experienced extreme stock price and volume fluctuations that have affected stock prices in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. Price volatility may cause the average price at which the Company repurchases its stock in a given period to exceed the stock's price at a given point in time. The Company believes the price of its stock should reflect expectations of future growth and profitability. The Company also believes the price of its stock should reflect expectations that its cash dividend will continue at current levels or grow, and that its current share repurchase program will be fully consummated. Future dividends are subject to declaration by the Company's Board of Directors, and the Company's share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares. If the Company fails to meet expectations related to future growth, profitability, dividends, share repurchases or other market expectations, the price of the Company's stock may decline significantly, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties The Company's headquarters are located in Cupertino, California. As of September 24, 2022, the Company owned or leased facilities and land for corporate functions, R&D, data centers, retail and other purposes at locations throughout the U.S. and in various places outside the U.S. The Company believes its existing facilities and equipment, which are used by all reportable segments, are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Epic Games Epic Games, Inc. ("Epic") filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California (the "Northern California District Court") against the Company alleging violations of federal and state antitrust laws and California's unfair competition law based upon the Company's operation of its App Store. The Company filed a counterclaim for breach of contract. On September 10, 2021, the Northern California District Court ruled in favor of the Company with respect to nine out of the ten counts included in Epic's claim, and in favor of the Company with respect to the Company's claims for breach of contract. The Northern California District Court found that certain provisions of the Company's App Store Review Guidelines violate California's unfair competition law and issued an injunction. Epic appealed the decision. The Company filed a cross-appeal and has been granted a stay pending the appeal. Other Legal Proceedings The Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims that have not been fully resolved and that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. The Company settled certain matters during the fourth quarter of 2022 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Company's financial condition or operating results. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain. If one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above management's expectations, the Company's financial condition and operating results for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 17 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company's common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol AAPL. Holders As of October 14, 2022, there were 23,838 shareholders of record. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Share repurchase activity during the three months ended September 24, 2022 was as follows (in millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands, and per share amounts): Periods Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs June 26, 2022 to July 30, 2022: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 41,690 145.91 41,690 July 31, 2022 to August 27, 2022: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 54,669 168.29 54,669 August 28, 2022 to September 24, 2022: Open market and privately negotiated purchases 63,813 155.59 63,813 Total 160,172 60,665 (1) As of September 24, 2022, the Company was authorized by the Board of Directors to purchase up to $405 billion of the Company's common stock under a share repurchase program most recently announced on April 28, 2022 (the "Program"), of which $344.3 billion had been utilized. The Program does not obligate the Company to acquire a minimum amount of shares. Under the Program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act. (1) Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 18 Company Stock Performance The following graph shows a comparison of cumulative total shareholder return, calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis, for the Company, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index for the five years ended September 24, 2022. The graph assumes $100 was invested in each of the Company's common stock, the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Information Technology Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index as of the market close on September 29, 2017. Past stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. $100 invested on September 29, 2017 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Data points are the last day of each fiscal year for the Company's common stock and September 30th for indexes. Copyright 2022 Standard & Poor's, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. Copyright 2022 S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. September 2017 September 2018 September 2019 September 2020 September 2021 September 2022 Apple Inc. 100 149 146 303 400 411 S&P 500 Index 100 118 123 142 184 156 S&P Information Technology Index 100 131 143 210 271 217 Dow Jones U.S. Technology Supersector Index 100 131 139 208 283 209 Item 6. [Reserved] Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 19 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 are not included in this Form 10-K, and can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2021. Fiscal Year Highlights Fiscal 2022 Highlights Total net sales increased 8% or $28.5 billion during 2022 compared to 2021, driven primarily by higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable year-over-year impact on all Products and Services net sales during 2022. The Company announces new product, service and software offerings at various times during the year. Significant announcements during fiscal 2022 included the following: First Quarter 2022: Updated MacBook Pro 14" and MacBook Pro 16", powered by the Apple M1 Pro or M1 Max chip; and Third generation of AirPods. Second Quarter 2022: Updated iPhone SE with 5G technology; All-new Mac Studio, powered by the Apple M1 Max or M1 Ultra chip; All-new Studio Display(tm); and Updated iPad Air with 5G technology, powered by the Apple M1 chip. Third Quarter 2022: Updated MacBook Air and MacBook Pro 13", both powered by the Apple M2 chip; iOS 16, macOS Ventura, iPadOS 16 and watchOS 9, updates to the Company's operating systems; and Apple Pay Later, a buy now, pay later service. Fourth Quarter 2022: iPhone 14, iPhone 14 Plus, iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max; Second generation of AirPods Pro; and Apple Watch Series 8, updated Apple Watch SE and all-new Apple Watch Ultra. In April 2022, the Company announced an increase to its Program authorization from $315 billion to $405 billion and raised its quarterly dividend from $0.22 to $0.23 per share beginning in May 2022. During 2022, the Company repurchased $90.2 billion of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $14.8 billion . COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, a significant impact around the world, prompting governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures, such as restrictions on travel and business operations, temporary closures of businesses, and quarantine and shelter-in-place orders. The COVID-19 pandemic has at times significantly curtailed global economic activity and caused significant volatility and disruption in global financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken by many countries in response have affected and could in the future materially impact the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of the Company's outsourcing partners, component suppliers and logistical service providers have experienced disruptions during the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in supply shortages. Similar disruptions could occur in the future. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 20 Products and Services Performance The following table shows net sales by category for 2022, 2021 and 2020 (dollars in millions): 2022 Change 2021 Change 2020 Net sales by category: iPhone 205,489 7 % 191,973 39 % 137,781 Mac 40,177 14 % 35,190 23 % 28,622 iPad 29,292 (8)% 31,862 34 % 23,724 Wearables, Home and Accessories 41,241 7 % 38,367 25 % 30,620 Services 78,129 14 % 68,425 27 % 53,768 Total net sales 394,328 8 % 365,817 33 % 274,515 (1) Products net sales include amortization of the deferred value of unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled in the sales price of the respective product. (2) Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales of AirPods, Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod mini and accessories. (3) Services net sales include sales from the Company's advertising, AppleCare, cloud, digital content, payment and other services. Services net sales also include amortization of the deferred value of services bundled in the sales price of certain products. iPhone iPhone net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales from the Company's new iPhone models released since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2021. Mac Mac net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales of laptops. iPad iPad net sales decreased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to lower net sales of iPad Pro. Wearables, Home and Accessories Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales of Apple Watch and AirPods. Services Services net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales from advertising, cloud services and the App Store. (1) (1) (1) (1)(2) (3) Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 21 Segment Operating Performance The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis. The Company's reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific. Americas includes both North and South America. Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa. Greater China includes China mainland, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Company's other reportable segments. Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Company's customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region. Further information regarding the Company's reportable segments can be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, "Segment Information and Geographic Data." The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for 2022, 2021 and 2020 (dollars in millions): 2022 Change 2021 Change 2020 Net sales by reportable segment: Americas 169,658 11 % 153,306 23 % 124,556 Europe 95,118 7 % 89,307 30 % 68,640 Greater China 74,200 9 % 68,366 70 % 40,308 Japan 25,977 (9)% 28,482 33 % 21,418 Rest of Asia Pacific 29,375 11 % 26,356 35 % 19,593 Total net sales 394,328 8 % 365,817 33 % 274,515 Americas Americas net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone, Services and Mac. Europe Europe net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had a net unfavorable year-over-year impact on Europe net sales during 2022. Greater China Greater China net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone and Services. The strength of the renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable year-over-year impact on Greater China net sales during 2022. Japan Japan net sales decreased during 2022 compared to 2021 due to the weakness of the yen relative to the U.S. dollar. Rest of Asia Pacific Rest of Asia Pacific net sales increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher net sales of iPhone, Mac and Services. The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable year-over-year impact on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during 2022. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 22 Gross Margin Products and Services gross margin and gross margin percentage for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2022 2021 2020 Gross margin: Products 114,728 105,126 69,461 Services 56,054 47,710 35,495 Total gross margin 170,782 152,836 104,956 Gross margin percentage: Products 36.3 % 35.3 % 31.5 % Services 71.7 % 69.7 % 66.0 % Total gross margin percentage 43.3 % 41.8 % 38.2 % Products Gross Margin Products gross margin increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to a different Products mix and higher Products volume, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Products gross margin percentage increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to a different Products mix, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Services Gross Margin Services gross margin increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to higher Services net sales, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. Services gross margin percentage increased during 2022 compared to 2021 due primarily to improved leverage and a different Services mix, partially offset by the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. The Company's future gross margins can be impacted by a variety of factors, as discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading "Risk Factors." As a result, the Company believes, in general, gross margins will be subject to volatility and downward pressure. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2022 Change 2021 Change 2020 Research and development 26,251 20 % 21,914 17 % 18,752 Percentage of total net sales 7 % 6 % 7 % Selling, general and administrative 25,094 14 % 21,973 10 % 19,916 Percentage of total net sales 6 % 6 % 7 % Total operating expenses 51,345 17 % 43,887 13 % 38,668 Percentage of total net sales 13 % 12 % 14 % Research and Development The year-over-year growth in R&D expense in 2022 was driven primarily by increases in headcount-related expenses and engineering program costs. Selling, General and Administrative The year-over-year growth in selling, general and administrative expense in 2022 was driven primarily by increases in headcount-related expenses, advertising and professional services. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 23 Other Income/(Expense), Net Other income/(expense), net ("OI&E") for 2022, 2021 and 2020 was as follows (dollars in millions): 2022 Change 2021 Change 2020 Interest and dividend income 2,825 2,843 3,763 Interest expense (2,931) (2,645) (2,873) Other income/(expense), net (228) 60 (87) Total other income/(expense), net (334) (229)% 258 (68)% 803 The decrease in OI&E during 2022 compared to 2021 was due primarily to higher realized losses on debt securities, unfavorable fair value adjustments on equity securities and higher interest expense, partially offset by higher foreign exchange gains. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes, effective tax rate and statutory federal income tax rate for 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows (dollars in millions): 2022 2021 2020 Provision for income taxes 19,300 14,527 9,680 Effective tax rate 16.2 % 13.3 % 14.4 % Statutory federal income tax rate 21 % 21 % 21 % The Company's effective tax rate for 2022 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily to a lower effective tax rate on foreign earnings, tax benefits from share-based compensation and the impact of the U.S. federal R&D credit, partially offset by state income taxes. The Company's effective tax rate for 2021 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily to a lower effective tax rate on foreign earnings, tax benefits from share-based compensation and foreign-derived intangible income deductions. The Company's effective tax rate for 2022 was higher compared to 2021 due primarily to a higher effective tax rate on foreign earnings, including the impact to U.S. foreign tax credits as a result of regulatory guidance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in 2022, and lower tax benefits from foreign-derived intangible income deductions and share-based compensation. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes its balances of cash, cash equivalents and unrestricted marketable securities, which totaled $156.4 billion as of September 24, 2022, along with cash generated by ongoing operations and continued access to debt markets, will be sufficient to satisfy its cash requirements and capital return program over the next 12 months and beyond. The Company's material cash requirements include the following contractual obligations. Debt As of September 24, 2022, the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $111.8 billion (collectively the "Notes"), with $11.1 billion payable within 12 months. Future interest payments associated with the Notes total $41.3 billion , with $2.9 billion payable within 12 months. The Company also issues unsecured short-term promissory notes ("Commercial Paper") pursuant to a commercial paper program. As of September 24, 2022, the Company had $10.0 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, all of which was payable within 12 months. Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities, including corporate, data center, manufacturing and retail space. As of September 24, 2022, the Company had fixed lease payment obligations of $15.3 billion , with $2.0 billion payable within 12 months. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 24 Manufacturing Purchase Obligations The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture subassemblies for the Company's products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products. The Company also obtains individual components for its products from a wide variety of individual suppliers. Outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days. As of September 24, 2022, the Company had manufacturing purchase obligations of $71.1 billion , with $68.4 billion payable within 12 months. The Company's manufacturing purchase obligations are primarily noncancelable. Other Purchase Obligations The Company's other purchase obligations primarily consist of noncancelable obligations to acquire capital assets, including assets related to product manufacturing, and noncancelable obligations related to internet services and content creation. As of September 24, 2022, the Company had other purchase obligations of $17.8 billion , with $6.8 billion payable within 12 months. Deemed Repatriation Tax Payable As of September 24, 2022, the balance of the deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Act") was $22.0 billion , with $5.3 billion expected to be paid within 12 months. In addition to its contractual cash requirements, the Company has a capital return program authorized by the Board of Directors. The Program does not obligate the Company to acquire a minimum amount of shares. As of September 24, 2022, the Company's quarterly cash dividend was $0.23 per share. The Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and the Company's discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Company's management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Uncertain Tax Positions The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The evaluation of the Company's uncertain tax positions involves significant judgment in the interpretation and application of GAAP and complex domestic and international tax laws, including the Act and matters related to the allocation of international taxation rights between countries. Although management believes the Company's reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these uncertainties will not be different from that which is reflected in the Company's reserves. Reserves are adjusted considering changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax examination. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management's expectations could have a material impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. Legal and Other Contingencies The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, the outcomes of which are inherently uncertain. The Company records a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the determination of which requires significant judgment. Resolution of legal matters in a manner inconsistent with management's expectations could have a material impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Risk Management The Company regularly reviews its foreign exchange forward and option positions and interest rate swaps, both on a stand-alone basis and in conjunction with its underlying foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Given the effective horizons of the Company's risk management activities and the anticipatory nature of the exposures, there can be no assurance these positions will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in either foreign exchange or interest rates. Further, the recognition of the gains and losses related to these instruments may not coincide with the timing of gains and losses related to the underlying economic exposures and, therefore, may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and operating results. Interest Rate Risk The Company's exposure to changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Company's investment portfolio and outstanding debt. While the Company is exposed to global interest rate fluctuations, it is most affected by fluctuations in U.S. interest rates. Changes in U.S. interest rates affect the interest earned on the Company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the fair value of those securities, as well as costs associated with hedging and interest paid on the Company's debt. The Company's investment policy and strategy are focused on the preservation of capital and supporting the Company's liquidity requirements. The Company uses a combination of internal and external management to execute its investment strategy and achieve its investment objectives. The Company typically invests in highly rated securities, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The Company's investment policy generally requires securities to be investment grade and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. To provide a meaningful assessment of the interest rate risk associated with the Company's investment portfolio, the Company performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the value of the investment portfolio assuming a 100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve. Based on investment positions as of September 24, 2022 and September 25, 2021, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities would result in a $4.0 billion and $4.1 billion incremental decline in the fair market value of the portfolio, respectively. Such losses would only be realized if the Company sold the investments prior to maturity. As of September 24, 2022, the Company had outstanding fixed-rate notes and as of September 25, 2021, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate carrying amount of $110.1 billion and $118.7 billion , respectively. The Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on its outstanding term debt. Interest rate swaps allow the Company to effectively convert fixed-rate payments into floating-rate payments or floating-rate payments into fixed-rate payments. Gains and losses on term debt are generally offset by the corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instrument. A 100 basis point increase in market interest rates would cause interest expense on the Company's debt as of September 24, 2022 and September 25, 2021 to increase by $201 million and $186 million on an annualized basis, respectively. Foreign Currency Risk In general, the Company is a net receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, will negatively affect the Company's net sales and gross margins as expressed in U.S. dollars. There is a risk that the Company will have to adjust local currency pricing due to competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts with financial institutions to protect against foreign exchange risks associated with certain existing assets and liabilities, certain firmly committed transactions, forecasted future cash flows and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. In addition, the Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into foreign currency contracts to partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses on its foreign currency-denominated debt issuances. The Company generally hedges portions of its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for up to 12 months. However, the Company may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures for a variety of reasons, including accounting considerations or the prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 26 To provide an assessment of the foreign currency risk associated with certain of the Company's foreign currency derivative positions, the Company performed a sensitivity analysis using a value-at-risk ("VAR") model to assess the potential impact of fluctuations in exchange rates. The VAR model consisted of using a Monte Carlo simulation to generate thousands of random market price paths assuming normal market conditions. The VAR is the maximum expected loss in fair value, for a given confidence interval, to the Company's foreign currency derivative positions due to adverse movements in rates. The VAR model is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments and assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were excluded from the model. Based on the results of the model, the Company estimates with 95% confidence, a maximum one-day loss in fair value of $1.0 billion as of September 24, 2022, compared to a maximum one-day loss in fair value of $550 million as of September 25, 2021. Because the Company uses foreign currency instruments for hedging purposes, the losses in fair value incurred on those instruments are generally offset by increases in the fair value of the underlying exposures. Actual future gains and losses associated with the Company's investment portfolio, debt and derivative positions may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses performed as of September 24, 2022 due to the inherent limitations associated with predicting the timing and amount of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and the Company's actual exposures and positions. Apple Inc. | 2022 Form 10-K | 27 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Index to Consolidated Financial Statements Page